chore: add some notes on chapter 3 of working the command line (#17)
The-Mycelium-Network/bookclub: working-the-command-line/chapter3/index.md

# Tools of the terminal trade

## The `|` (pipe) chracter

> > The pipe is a magic and integral part of the command line. It’s super powerful and damn useful. What it does is take the output from the first command (on the left side) and “pipe” it to the second command (on the right side).

Reviewer: Replace the word "damn" with something less potentially objectionable, such as "extremely" or "extraordinarily."

Author: Ah, yes, good point. That is a direct quote from the book, but I reckon we can clean it up. Thank you for the thoughtful suggestion.

> > The pipe is a magic and integral part of the command line. It’s super powerful and damn useful. What it does is take the output from the first command (on the left side) and “pipe” it to the second command (on the right side).

Author: ```suggestion
> The pipe is a magic and integral part of the command line. It’s super powerful and extremely useful. What it does is take the output from the first command (on the left side) and “pipe” it to the second command (on the right side).
```

### ripgrep example

At the end of the chapter there is this command Remy uses:

```bash
tail -1000 access.log  | cut -d' ' -f1 | sort | uniq -c | sort -n | tail -5
```

Using ripgrep you can get the same result like this:

```bash
rg "(\d+(\.|(?: )){1}){4}" -o access.log -N | uniq -c | sort | tail -5
```

- `"(\d+(\.|(?: )){1}){4}"` is a regular expression that matches the IP addresses
- `-o` will only print the matched part of the string
- `-N` tells ripgrep to not output the line number

`rg "(\d+(\.|(?: )){1}){4}" -o access.log -N` will output something like:

```bash
192.241.205.217
20.243.176.69
20.243.176.69
20.243.176.69
51.79.29.48
81.0.4044.129
51.79.29.48
81.0.4044.129
5.181.80.56
154.6.22.115
60.0.3112.107
154.6.22.115
60.0.3112.107
174.138.61.44
174.138.61.44
174.138.61.44
51.79.29.48
81.0.4044.129
51.79.29.48
81.0.4044.129
181.214.218.69
41.0.2224.3
```

## less

### less cheatsheet

> - move up and down using the up and down cursor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- move up and down using the up and down arrow keys
```
